Vedanta Barooah
===============

barooah.vedanta@gmail.com | +1.408.504.8575 | http://www.linkedin.com/in/vedanta*

Summary
-------

Accomplished technologist and technical leader with 15+ years of experience on
large scale enterprise datacenters and computing environments with a focus on
consolidation, systems management and automation, application migration,
virtualization, optimization, solutions architecture, product development and
systems engineering. I have a proven track record of delivering technical
services, solution design and implementation for customers worldwide.

Over the years I have worked in multiple technology focused roles such as Web
and Application Developer, Software Instructor, System Administrator, Technology
Consultant, Solutions Architect, Product Engineer and Manager. I currently work
for Hewlett Packard Enterprise as a Senior Enterprise Cloud Architect and hold
the position of a Master Technologist. I work on key enterprise projects being
delivered globally primarily focused on Application and Cloud Migration,
Consolidation and Optimization. I also have responsibility of application
architecture, engineering and management of software products and tools used by
consultants and customers in areas of workload migration to cloud and
operations. I have worked in roles where I was responsible for providing
technical leadership and mentorship to global teams working on customer projects
in different areas including Linux, UNIX and Open Systems, Cloud, Open Source,
Virtualization, Networking and Storage.

Skill Areas
-----------

-   Enterprise and Solution Architecture

-   Systems and Infrastructure

-   Systems and Performance

-   Systems and Network Administration

-   Clustering

-   High Availability and Parallel Processing

-   Virtualization and Infrastructure Consolidation

-   Software Builds and Packaging

-   Update and Patch Management

-   Configuration Management

-   Web and Application Development

-   OS Life Cycle Management

-   Systems and Network Monitoring

-   System Management

-   Application Monitoring/Management

-   Enterprise Web Platforms

-   Enterprise Directories

-   Datacenter Rollout

-   Hadoop and Big Data

-   Automation, CI/CD and DevOps

-   Public, Private and Hybrid Cloud

-   Product Engineering and Management

-   Open Source Technologies and Standards

-   Open Source Governance

|   |
|---|


Experience
----------

**Hewlett Packard Enterprise** *10/2015 - Present*

*Master Enterprise Cloud Architect - TSC Worldwide Cloud Engineering & HP
Helion*

-   Provide technical leadership on cloud computing to TS consulting regions -
    AMS, APJ, and EMEA

-   Enterprise and solution architecture on private cloud design and
    implementation

-   Application and workload migration to private and public cloud platforms
    from traditional DC

-   Technology evaluation, qualification, integration and automation

-   Tool development, automation and devops

-   Cloud computing expert

-   Support TS consulting regions - sales, marketing, pre-sales and delivery

-   HP Helion OpenStack, Eucalyptus, HDP, Docker

-   Cloud Platforms - AWS, Azure, IaaS, PaaS and SaaS

-   IT / Cloud Ops – Salt Stack, Ansible, Puppet

-   Source Control and Collaboration – Git (Bitbucket and GitHub)

-   Technical project management and design architect for Cloud engineering
    projects

-   Project Management Tools and Processes – Kanban, Scrum, JIRA

-   Web development and automation

-   Service Architect - Cloud Workload Portability and Migration

-   Product Management, Architecture and Engineering

-   Web Development – LAMP, JavaScript

**Hewlett-Packard** *01 / 2005 – 09/2015*

*Master Enterprise Cloud Architect - TSC Worldwide / HP Helion (Seattle, WA)
02/2015 – 09/2015*

*-* Details under Hewlett Packard Enterprise

*Leader Enterprise Architect - HP Master Technologist (San Jose, CA and Plano,
TX) 07 / 2013 – 01/2015*

-   Provide technical leadership across HP TS Consulting service lines for
    customer projects in the Americas and Worldwide regions

-   Act as a Senior Solution Architect for delivery projects focusing in the
    areas of Data Center Consolidation, Application Ready Infrastructure,
    Infrastructure Automation and Hadoop

-   Chief Solutions Architect for HP TS offshore global teams and delivery
    projects

-   Technical Leader for projects delivered by Americas Regions and HP’s
    offshore teams and factory models

-   Subject Matter Expert on Linux as an Enterprise Data Center Operating System

-   Subject Matter Expert on Application and Database Migration from Unix
    (Solaris, HP-UX, AIX) to Red Hat / SuSE Linux

-   Design and Architecture for customer centric solutions for Infrastructure
    Consulting Practice and Application Migrations

-   Support and provide technical leadership, solutions architect and strategy
    to Sales and Pre-Sales organizations in various project proposals including
    solutions, sizing, resource estimation, and execution models.

-   Work with World Wide Portfolio Sales and Technical teams to help design and
    create solutions geared towards Data Center Linux Enablement and
    Application/Database Migration Services

-   Project delivery, technical escalation management and remediation

-   Train and mentor HP team’s members on various solutions, processes,
    methodology and tools

*Master Solutions Architect (San Jose, CA) 01 / 2011 - 07 / 2013*

-   Senior Solution Architect leading multiple external customer facing and
    internal projects for HP Technology Services Consulting practice in the
    Americas region

-   Subject Matter Expert on Linux as an Enterprise Data Center Operating System

-   Subject Matter Expert on Application and Database Migration from Unix
    (Solaris, HP-UX, AIX) to Red Hat / SuSE Linux

-   Project Technical Lead for Migrations delivered by Americas Regions and HP’s
    offshore global teams

-   Design and Architecture for customer centric solutions for Infrastructure
    Consulting Practice and Application Migrations

-   Support and provide technical leadership, solutions and strategy to Sales
    and Pre-Sales organizations in various project proposals including
    solutions, sizing, resource estimation, and execution models.

-   Work with World Wide Portfolio Sales and Technical teams to help design and
    create solutions geared towards Data Center Linux Enablement and
    Application/Database Migration Services

-   Project delivery, technical escalation management and remediation

-   Train and mentor HP team’s members on various solutions, processes,
    methodology and tools

*Senior Technology Consultant (Cupertino, CA) 07 / 2010 - 12 / 2011*

-   Subject Matter Expert on Datacenter Linux, UNIX and Open Source

-   Database migrations, design, planning, implementation and subject matter
    expert

-   Application migrations, design, planning, implementation and subject matter
    expert

-   Migrations, design, planning, implementation and subject matter expert

-   Individual Project Contributor on both internal and external project lead by
    HP TS organization

-   Support pre-sales organization on technical documentation, project
    qualification, sizing and estimates

-   Support globally spread teams and deliver as a consultant on various HP TS
    lead projects

-   Performance Optimization, Tuning & Security- Linux, Open Source Middleware,
    HP Software

-   Act as an evangelist for open source technologies with the region and with
    customers

-   Create training content and presentations and conduct various training
    seminars for regional and global teams

-   Subject Matter Expert on Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity Planning

-   SME on System Performance, Management and Monitoring

*Senior Technology Consultant (Cupertino, CA) 01 / 2007 - 07 / 2010*

-   Senior Technology Consultant for Linux and Open Source Middleware Stacks,
    Applications hosted on Linux

-   Work as an individual contributor and deliver on HP lead customer facing
    projects

-   Work with offshore teams in global HP locations to support HP lead projects

-   Lab System Administration for hosting servers used by development and
    consulting teams

-   Create proof of concept environments and demos to be leveraged by Consulting
    teams

-   Conduct customer demos and presentations on HP technology and service
    offering

-   Worked with internal HP teams and work on area like – HP Enterprise
    Directories, Open Source Governance

-   Performance and Testing Engineer for various Open Source and COTS
    Applications running on RedHat, SuSE

-   SME on VMware & Linux Virtualization

-   Subject Matter Expert on HP infrastructure automation, and management tools

*Software Engineer – Software Designer II (Bangalore, India and Cupertino, CA)
01 / 2005 - 01 / 2007*

-   Subject Matter Expert for Linux and Open Source Software

-   Linux implementations in datacenters as a platform to host various business
    critical applications

-   Support HP IT teams on various software tools used within HP internally

-   Build, test, release & maintenance engineer for Open Source Stack components
    released by HP

-   HP Software / OSS solution and integration to cater to various customer
    requirements

-   Software Development of components integrating with HP software like
    OpenView and System Insight Manager

-   Test and integration engineer for various Linux and open source middleware
    components

-   System Administration, Automated Deployment and Automation Framework
    Development

-   Performance Optimization, Tuning & Security- Linux, Open Source Middleware,
    HP Software

-   Evangelist for open source technologies

-   India lead for HP's Open Source & Linux Profession Program

-   Create training content and presentations and conduct various training
    seminars for regional and global teams

**GoRemote Software** *11 / 2004 - 12 / 2004*

*Test Engineer / Network Monitoring Engineer (Bangalore, India)*

-   Management and Monitoring of Customer Data Centers with emphasis on networks

-   Software Testing and Automation

-   Test Automation/Scripting - Perl, PHP, Python

-   Web Servers

-   Public Key Infrastructure

**Maintec Technologies** *01 / 2004 - 11 / 2004*

*Web Developer (Bangalore, India)*

-   Web Development

-   Server task automation and scripting.

-   Web and Mail Hosting

-   Web Server Administration

-   Mail Server Administration

-   Security and Firewall Implementation and Administration

-   System And Network Administration

-   Help Desk Support

-   Internet Gateway Administration

-   Database Design

-   Software Development

**Linux Learning Center** *05 / 2003 - 12 / 2003*

*Software Engineer / Support Engineer (Bangalore, India)*

-   Web Application Development

-   Database Administration

-   Database Design for Web and Native Applications

-   System Administration – Linux and Unix Systems

-   Network Administration

-   Linux and Open Source - Technical Instructor

-   Response Centre and Technical Support

**NIIT** *12 / 2001 - 05 / 2003*

*Software Instructor and Developer (Guwahati, India)*

-   Computer Software Instructor – Provided training on various computing and
    software technologies

-   Software Development – In-house software development

Education
---------

-   Bachelor of Science in Business Administration and Computer Technology

    Madurai Kamraj University (India)

    NIIT (India)

Certifications
--------------

Red Hat Certified Engineer

MySQL 5 Certified DBA

References
----------

References will be provided upon request
